168 Fairy Rooms

Concept

The extensive work of Hans Christian Andersen consists on a collection of 168 tales.

Our proposal for the new building is a spatial translation of this literary collection: 168 rooms for 168 fairy tales. The assembly of these spaces will become the House of Fairy Tales.

The recreation of the author’s universe appears hidden under a piece of nature, the Museum is displayed as a secret world that we can discover room by room, as in an ever-changing sequence of surprising spaces.

The visitor has the freedom to build it’s own experience: didactic circuits are clearly indicated, but there is always the chance to explore alternative itineraries, so everyone can invent a different museum in each visit.


168 rooms
 
Each tale names a room, every room is a tale. 

168 Traits. The atmosphere created by Hans Christian Andersen is unique, distinct, we identified what we call traits. 
168 different spaces.
168 differnt skylights.
168 reading points. A translated copy on every language is available in the room.


Garden and Museum

One of the main themes in Andersen’s tales is the ever present nature.

Lotze´s Have was an apothecary’s garden, made of medicinal and aromatic plants. 
At the same time than becoming a green heart for the new plan it will regain it’s old spirit. 

By placing the HoFT Museum underground, the whole site becomes a public space. 
Lotze´s Have is greatly enlarged, and it becomes a new room for the city.

This room is pierced by skyligths and yellow patios. 
The skylights will form part of the garden furniture.
A green heart patched with sparks of light in the night.

The underground street will be connected with this green room by a big yellow patio.  


HybridATION

The use of the whole biulding is at the same time Tinderbox and HoFT Museum 
There are three types of rooms: public rooms, Tinderbox rooms and restricted rooms.
Users of Tinderbox can freely use public rooms and Tinderbox rooms.
Visitors of HoFT Museum can walk among public rooms and visit Tinderbox rooms when they are open, 
Restricted rooms are locked for visitors but regular users are provided with an access key. 


Concept

Our proposal for the new building to create a mixture between the preexistent is a spatial translation of this literary collection: 168 rooms for 168 fairy tales. The assembly of these spaces will become the House of Fairy Tales. 

The recreation of the author’s universe appears hidden under a piece of nature, the Museum is displayed as a secret world that we can discover room by room, as in an ever-changing sequence of surprising spaces.

So visiting the HoFT Museum is like going through a labyrinth, or following a treasure map. 

The visitor has the freedom to build it’s own experience: didactic circuits are clearly indicated, but there is always the chance to explore alternative itineraries, so everyone can invent a different museum in each visit.


168 rooms
 
Each tale names a room, every room is a tale. 

Hans Christian Andersen not only wrote books, he creates a unique atmosphere on each one. The project aims to recreate one of this ambients on each room. This will be achieved through traits that we find on the reading of the tales. The traits would be simple conceptual models for structuring tales-oriented rooms.

So each room has it’s own trait. For example, ‘’The Flea and the Professor’’ room is full of balloons, or the ‘’Two maidens’’ room is a workshop full of tools, the trait of the room. 
On each room visitors would find printed copies of the room’s tale, on several languages, but this does not mean there is a limitation to the H. C. Andersen’s literary work. Also papercuts and other important aspects of his life and history are placed on the rooms. 

So we will have: 
168 different spaces.
168 different skylights.
168 reading points. A translated copy on every language is available in the room.
168 historic 



GARDEN AND MUSEUM

One of the main themes in Andersen’s tales is the ever present nature.

The new urban plan transforms the existing highway into a new string of houses, peatonal areas and bike lanes. It needs a green heart and the aim of the project is to give it as big as possible. So the proposal works keeping the historic buildings, the ones with historic value for the city, on its place. But everything else would be placed on the underground, and Lotzes Have will be almost the whole plot. 

Each urban improvement should come along with a thought on the historic footprint left behind. Here we have Lotze´s Have, an apothecary’s garden, originally made of medicinal and aromatic plants. We have now a green flat area, with some big trees. The project sidesteps the trees, surrounds them by untouched areas for the roots to grow. The green area over the HoFT building is a patchwork of smells and colors, using the original herbalistic plants, which looks back on the natural world of H. C. Andersen. 

This urban room is pierced by the skyligths of the HoFT rooms and its yellow patios. This elements are part of the garden furniture, they give to the park passerbies an insight of the interior of the building. This openings of the HoFT will be at night like sparkles piercing the garden.

The access to the building from the exterior and from the underground street will be by Hans Jensens Straede, between the Birthplace of H C Andersen and an old city house, through a glass box below a traditional gable roof. 

But there is also a direct connection between this underground street and Lotzes Have, through a yellow plaza which creates a new urban junction for this yellow street. 


HYBRIDATION

The mayor change from the existing building is the absolute mix of uses. The program is distributed based on the tale that identifies the room. For example, the Magic Wardrobe is the Emperor’s New Clothes room, or the Puppet Show man is the auditorium. 

Then, at the same time, all the building is museum, all the building is the civic centre or Tinderbox, all the building is library. 

Distributed program: 
- library: each of the rooms has a copy -on several languages- of the tale that names it. 
- museology: the different parts of the exhibition are distributed among the rooms creating paths. Following a map given to the users of the building, they can follow the path for the exhibition: ‘’the Man’’, ‘’the Art’’ or ‘’the Work’’. Or alternatively they can invent their own route through the spaces. 
- Tinderbox: the ateliers, workshops, wardrobes and activities rooms are distributed among the whole lot of the building rooms. This creates an intricated net of paths that can change every day, so for the kids -and adults- the adventure starts on the same access. 

Functionality: 
There is only one access, and one control, from underground yellow street and street levels. 
The use of the whole building is at the same time Tinderbox and HoFT Museum 
There are three types of rooms: public rooms, Tinderbox rooms and restricted rooms.
Users of Tinderbox can freely use public rooms and Tinderbox rooms.
Visitors of HoFT Museum can walk among public rooms and visit Tinderbox rooms when they are open, 
Restricted rooms are locked for visitors but regular users are provided with an access key. 

Street level Uses:
Part of the program should be kept on ground floor level: 
-The birthplace house as its own exhibition space.
-The old town houses become staff areas, access and meeting rooms.
-A glass box on Jensens straede as the entrance from street level.
-The Memorial Hall houses lots of people who would see its paintings and at the same time are very near to the park, who come and go or either stay there for a long while, admiring its paintings and enjoying its very special lighting: it is the cafetería now.
